Now let's talk about essential tasks test.
Now this is actually the cream off your usability test because it is actually the main base of usability
tests.
This is the main test you are going to do with your app your website.
And as the name suggests you are going to list out all the different essential tasks your users are
going to perform on your website or your app on daily basis or again and again in my case which is fraudulent
e-commerce for my users are going to mostly do log in sign up check out browsing products filtering
products finding products adding them to the card removing them from the card moving them to the fresh
fish list and moving them back from the visuals to the card.
Things like that.
So I'm going to list out all essential tasks and I'm going to plan out different tasks scenarios and
build them to follow our users to perform and we are going to test all these tasks based on some metric
we're going to see in the next slide.
So let's see what that is.
Now in any usability test there are two ways to do it.
One is that for example I have already a product already of upside which I want to improve and I have
found few problems that I think that this is my problem statement that I believe that users are not
taking an action on this bid.
This is in case of my frock and Web site because the major categories are here and now I'm going to
show the screen after this.
So this will make more sense to you.
Users will navigate easily if we make subcategories to categories.
So we are going to move subcategories and show them visibly on our main categories in our navigation
bar.
This is my eye hypothesis that this is how it will solve this problem.
Now metrics are what are actually the bank marking things we are going to use to test these for example
number of clicks or time to locate the item.
These are the things that are going to decide that I was right or it actually has improved.
Now this is my frock line.
If you remember in the previous lesson we had one main category shop over here and all these categories
party dress is casual they were inside that shop and now my hypothesis is that if I move them outside
like over here and made the major categories rather than subcategories it will help user to locate them
and it will increase our you can say in revenue or clicks.
So we are going to test it with our metric which is time to locate.
This is very essential and I will write some tasks scenario that you want something for your summer
vacations.
What would you where would you go to find that dress.
So if the user goes toward hair Summer and Summer collection that is going to tell me if it takes like
five seconds to them I'm going to make sure that this is great.
We are improving but in the previous design actually we are going to test two versions of this design
one as the previous one which is called A B testing so we are going to test two versions different versions
of the same main page and see which one performs better.
And we will decide that this is actually helping them.
They are able to get to that within two seconds.
This is great.
Now we are going to write our task details in a scenario format a short story.
We are not going to see them that try to click on this go to check out and things like that.
We are not going to give them any hints any labels any navigational items names.
I am I am using for example in case of my website let me show you for example we have summer winter
collection party dresses casual Princess Barbie and things like that.
So I am not going to use a check out or things like that.
I might use that.
What would you do once you have added your items to your card.
How would you go forward from there.
Are things like that.
I'm not going to give them a hint of like try to check out using my website.
This is not a European usability test.
This is a direction you are giving them.
The whole thing you are not going to give them any hints.
Here is an example of writing tasks and for your usability test and case of my frog clan.
Here I am going to give you something like this.
You clicked on a Facebook ad for a kid's clothing website and read this page to buy our dress for your
daughter.
What is the first thing you would do.
I would like to see whether they are going to create a new account or they are going to start adding
dresses to their car.
Things like that.
Now there is another technique that you lead your user from one task to another.
So I start with one task which was previous one I am going to give them a new task.
Now the next task.
Now you want to get a perfect dress for your little girl for her birthday party by tomorrow.
What steps would you take now.
Can you show us things like that.
Then after that once she has added a few dresses to our cart I am going to say what would you do next
to get those dresses at your doorstep.
I am not using keyword checkout so if you see my website right here you can see I have used checkout
over here so I am not using this keyword.
I am not going giving them hints that try to check out from here.
So I would like to see how they actually approach it whether they click this card or here first or whether
they click on this check out things like that.
There are a few things you need to do while you are conducting your usability test.
The first thing is that keep quiet.
Don't give your user.
You can see hints and don't guide them.
Just keep quiet.
This is the most difficult thing I find.
I found out that this is most difficult for me because I talk a lot.
So you have to keep quiet.
You have to not answer their duties.
You just keep them asking what do you expect it to do.
What do you think it does.
You are going to answer the questions with another question.
One more tip is that try to rehearse with your friend or team member before conducting any usability
test because in the first few minutes you are also going to tell them that this is the product.
Introduce them to that.
Tell them a little bit about it and tell them that you are we are going to give you some tasks and we
are not testing you but we are testing this product.
How good it is and how bad it is.
So do whatever you do freely.
Don't try to think that it would be.
We are testing you.
We are just chatting testing this product.
So just to build up some confidence with your user and get familiar with them.
One technique or thing allow technique is you are going to ask your users to keep thinking with their
mouth so they are going to see all the words they are thinking in their head and you are going to record
that video and audio and also write down some notes.
If you find something and this is actually going to help you a lot.
Now let me show you what actually this thing allow.
Technique is now you can see that I am user and I have given a task to go and find some someone collection
or summer clothes or clothes for your heart.
Whether I am also excluding summer or here anyhow.
So I would say something like that.
Okay so I need to dress for a heart whether I would go in some summer collection.
Okay so I have found it.
I'm going to click over here and these are few dresses I can see.
So this is actually I think allowed technique.
Your user is going to say whatever they have in they have been thinking all along while performing these
tasks.
If you use a stop somewhere you have to tell them that I want you to think aloud.
Tell me what are you thinking.
So ask them like that.
Know what we will get from these and usability tests.
We are going to gnaw down all the pain points are all the major frustrations or problems of our users
actually faced and we we're going to lift them out.
We are going to give them suggestions to have our developers and designers that this is how this problem
can be tackled.
This is how this problem can be solved and we are also going to list that.
What is the time taken.
What were the number of atoms whether the user completed successfully or not.
So things like that.
I'm going to show you the template of a form user analysis form you can use while doing these usability
tests.
Make sure you download it.
Now this is a very simple form.
We have a name of a user.
We have prototype number.
Whichever prototype whether it was a check out prototype or whatever we had.
Then the screen name what which screen they were on whether they were on log in screen sign up screen
dos detailed what dos they were performing tasks to complete an address to their card or whatever.
What is the time taken eight minutes rather than complete it or not.
Yes or no completed possible pain points.
No or yes.
And we are going to write some notes over here that this is the pain point they had.
You can also write add another column and give them suggestions that this is how it can be solved.
So this is actually the listing of all your pain points and using different dos and different users.
So I suggest that do it with at least three to five users.
This is the sweet spot and I hope you have enjoyed this lesson and understood what is actually usability
tests and how we perform them.
So let's move on to the next lesson and see what we have ahead.